<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE: It is auto-generated by `make update-man` -->

# rreadlink(1) - recursively resolve symlinks

## SYNOPSIS

Recursively resolves symlinks by printing the chain of targets using absolute  
paths or prints the canonical path of a symlink's ultimate target or of a  
non-symlink.

    rreadlink [-s|-1] symLink
    rreadlink -e symLink

    -s     single-line output format using ' -> ' between paths and
           @ to mark symlinks (default when printing to terminal)
    -1     one-line-per-path output format, without the @ marker (default
           when NOT printing to a terminal)
    -e     print only the symlink's ultimate target, in canonical form

Standard options: `--help`, `--man`, `--version`, `--home`

## DESCRIPTION

`rreadlink` (*r*ecursive *readlink*) improves upon `readlink`'s functionality  
by:

* printing a symlink's target *chain* from the input file to its ultimate target.
* using absolute paths.
* also working with non-symlinks by printing their canonical paths.

If the input file is indeed a symlink, you'll get at least 2 output paths  
(unless `-e` is specified): the input symlink and its target; if there are  
intermediate symlinks, you'll get more.

While each file is output by its absolute path, it is only the *ultimate*  
target whose path will be *canonical*.

CAVEAT: *Circular* symlinks are NOT detected and will result in an infinite  
loop.

If any of the files in the chain do not exist, processing stops, an error  
message is output, and exit code 1 is returned.

If the input file is NOT a symlink, only *its* full path is printed in its  
*canonical* form. I.e., the file's directory path - if it happens to have  
symlink components - is resolved to its ultimate target.

Thus, you can use `rreadlink -e <anyFile>` on any existing filesystem object,  
and you'll either get its own canonical path (if not a symlink) or its  
ultimate target's canonical path (if a symlink).

## OPTIONS

  * `-s`, ``  
    Single-line output format, with ' -> ' between paths, and symlinks marked
    with a terminal `@` (similar to  `ls -lF`).  
    This is the default output format when printing to a terminal.

  * `-1`, ``  
    (The number one.) One-line-per-path output format.  
    Prints each output path on its own line, without the terminal `@`.  
    This is the default output format when *not* printing to a terminal.

  * `-e`, `--ultimate`  
    Prints only the *ultimate* target's absolute, canonical path.  
    Same as GNU `readlink`'s `-e` (`--canonicalize-existing`) option.  
    If a non-symlink is given, its own canonical path is output.

## STANDARD OPTIONS

All standard options provide information only.

 * `-h, --help`  
   Prints the contents of the synopsis chapter to stdout for quick reference.

 * `--man`  
   Displays this manual page, which is a helpful alternative to using `man`,  
   if the manual page isn't installed.

 * `--version`  
   Prints version information.
  
 * `--home`  
   Opens this utility's home page in the system's default web browser.

## SEE ALSO

`typex`(1) reports the path of executables in the system's path, among other  
things, and has `rreadlink`'s functionality built in, so as to show what  
file is ultimately invoked for a given executable name.  
See https://github.com/mklement0/typex

## LICENSE

For license information, bug reports, and more, visit this utility's home page  
by running `rreadlink --home`.

## EXAMPLES

      # Print the chain of symlinks for the `nawk` executable.
      # (Sample output from Ubuntu.)
    $ rreadlink $(which nawk)
    /usr/bin/nawk@ -> /etc/alternatives/nawk@ -> /usr/bin/gawk

      # Print the canonicalized path of a non-symlink.
      # (Sample output from a Fedora, where /bin is symlinked to /usr/bin.)
    $ rreadlink -e /bin/sed
    /usr/bin/sed

